examples/Docker/README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable  MD013 -->
# Containerized installation using apache2 as webserver and wsgi or django

This should be the fastest and most convenient way to deploy acme2certifier. After installation acme2certifier will run inside a minimalized ubunbtu 20.04 container using apache2 as webserver.

Acme2certifier needs to store its database (`acme_srv.db`), ca_handler (`ca_handler.py`) and configuration file (`acme_srv.cfg`) on a persistent data-storage. In this docker-compose those files are attached to data/ folder.

`.env` contains options to switch between master or devel branch as well as to choise between wsgi or django to run acme2certifier.

```config
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=acme2certifier
BRANCH=master
CONTEXT=wsgi
```

Building the docker-compose:

```bash
user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose build --no-cache
Building srv
Step 1/17 : FROM ubuntu:20.04
 ---> 1d622ef86b13
Step 2/17 : LABEL maintainer="grindelsack@gmail.com"
 ---> Running in 03f043052bc9
Removing intermediate container 03f043052bc9
...
```

Start acme2certifier:

`user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose up -d`

Whenever changes in `.env` are made, another build is required:

`user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose build --no-cache`

The entry-point script will check during the start process if a configuration file and a ca_handler in data/. If these files do not exist the below examples will be copied to the docker image.

- [acme_srv.cfg file](../../examples/acme_srv.cfg) from the example directory
- [stub_handler](../../examples/ca_handler/skeleton_ca_handler.py) from the example/ca-handler directory

The container should be visible in the list of active containers

```bash
user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose ps
        Name                      Command               State                       Ports
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
acme2certifier_srv_1   /docker-entrypoint.sh /usr ...   Up      0.0.0.0:22443->443/tcp, 0.0.0.0:22280->80/tcp
```

Its should already be possible to access the directory Resources of our acme2certifer container:

```bash
user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker run -it --rm --network acme curlimages/curl http://acme-srv/directory | python -m json.tool
{
    "6a01d6abe3a84de2831d24aa5451b3a2": "https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/adding-random-entries-to-the-directory/33417",
    "keyChange": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/key-change",
    "meta": {
        "author": "grindsa <grindelsack@gmail.com>",
        "home": "https://github.com/grindsa/acme2certifier",
        "name": "acme2certifier",
        "version": "0.9-dev"
    },
    "newAccount": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/newaccount",
    "newAuthz": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/new-authz",
    "newNonce": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/newnonce",
    "newOrder": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/neworders",
    "revokeCert": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/revokecert"
}
```

Both configuration file and ca_handler must be modified according to your setup.

In case you would like to enable ssl-support in acme2certifer please place a file acme2certifier.pem on the volume. This file must contain the following certificate data in pem format:

- the private key
- the end-entity certificate
- intermediate CA certificates, sorted from leaf to root. The root CA certificate should not be included for security reasons.

```key
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
...
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
end-entity certificate data
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
ca certificate(s) data
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

To reload the modified files the container should be restarted.

`user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose restart`

Try to enroll a certificate by using your favorite acme-client. If it fails check the configuration of your ca_handler, logs and enable [debug mode](../../docs/acme_srv.md) in acme2certifier for further investigation.

Commit message:

[feat] switch between apache and nginx

examples/Docker/README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable  MD013 -->
# Containerized installation using apache2 as webserver and wsgi or django

This should be the fastest and most convenient way to deploy acme2certifier. After installation acme2certifier will run inside a minimalized ubunbtu 20.04 container using apache2 as webserver.

Acme2certifier needs to store its database (`acme_srv.db`), ca_handler (`ca_handler.py`) and configuration file (`acme_srv.cfg`) on a persistent data-storage. In this docker-compose those files are attached to data/ folder.

`.env` contains options to switch between master or devel branch, choose choice between wsgi or django and select the webserver (apache2 or nginx) to be used.

```config
COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME=acme2certifier
BRANCH=master
CONTEXT=wsgi
WEBSERVER=apache2
```

Building the docker-compose:

```bash
user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose build --no-cache
Building srv
Step 1/17 : FROM ubuntu:20.04
 ---> 1d622ef86b13
Step 2/17 : LABEL maintainer="grindelsack@gmail.com"
 ---> Running in 03f043052bc9
Removing intermediate container 03f043052bc9
...
```

Start acme2certifier:

`user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose up -d`

Whenever changes in `.env` are made, another build is required:

`user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose build --no-cache`

The entry-point script will check during the start process if a configuration file and a ca_handler in data/. If these files do not exist the below examples will be copied to the docker image.

- [acme_srv.cfg file](../../examples/acme_srv.cfg) from the example directory
- [stub_handler](../../examples/ca_handler/skeleton_ca_handler.py) from the example/ca-handler directory

The container should be visible in the list of active containers

```bash
user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose ps
        Name                      Command               State                       Ports
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
acme2certifier_srv_1   /docker-entrypoint.sh /usr ...   Up      0.0.0.0:22443->443/tcp, 0.0.0.0:22280->80/tcp
```

Its should already be possible to access the directory Resources of our acme2certifer container:

```bash
user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker run -it --rm --network acme curlimages/curl http://acme-srv/directory | python -m json.tool
{
    "6a01d6abe3a84de2831d24aa5451b3a2": "https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/adding-random-entries-to-the-directory/33417",
    "keyChange": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/key-change",
    "meta": {
        "author": "grindsa <grindelsack@gmail.com>",
        "home": "https://github.com/grindsa/acme2certifier",
        "name": "acme2certifier",
        "version": "0.9-dev"
    },
    "newAccount": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/newaccount",
    "newAuthz": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/new-authz",
    "newNonce": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/newnonce",
    "newOrder": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/neworders",
    "revokeCert": "http://acme2certifier_srv_1/acme/revokecert"
}
```

Both configuration file and ca_handler must be modified according to your setup.

To reload the modified files the container should be restarted.

`user@docker-host:~/acme2certifier/examples/Docker$ docker-compose restart`

Try to enroll a certificate by using your favorite acme-client. If it fails check the configuration of your ca_handler, logs and enable [debug mode](../../docs/acme_srv.md) in acme2certifier for further investigation.

## TLS support when using apache2

In case you would like to enable TLS-support in acme2certifer please place a file acme2certifier.pem on the volume. This file must contain the following certificate data in pem format:

- the private key
- the end-entity certificate
- intermediate CA certificates, sorted from leaf to root. The root CA certificate should not be included for security reasons.

```key
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
...
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
end-entity certificate data
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
ca certificate(s) data
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

## TLS support when using nginx

To enable TLS-support in nginx please place two files `acme2certifier_cert.pem` and `acme2certifier_key.pem` on the volme. `acme2certifier_cert.pem` must contain the certificate to be used while `acme2certifier_key.pem` must contain the corresponding private key. Certificate and key must be stored in pem format.
