docs/est.md, before:

# Generic EST protocol handler

The EST protocol handler is not bound to a specific CA and implements the ['cacerts'](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-2.1) and ['simpleenroll'](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-2.2.1) calls as defined in [RFC7030](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030).

when using the handler please be aware of the following limitations:

- Authentication towards CA server is limited to ClientAuth as described in [RFC7030 section 3.3.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-3.3.2) 
- Revocation operations are not supported

The andler has been tested with the following EST implementation:

- EST reference implementation from [Cisco](http://testrfc7030.com/)
- [Insta Certifier](https://www.insta.fi/en/services/cyber-security/insta-certifier)

## Pre-requisites
- Certificate and key (in PEM format) used to authenticate acme2certifier towards EST server. 
- CA certificate(s) in pem format allowing to validate the certificate presented by the EST server. The CA certificates must be bundled into a single chain file as described in [RFC5246 section 7.4.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246#section-7.4.2)
 
## Installation and Configuration
 - copy the ca_handler into the acme directory
```
root@rlh:~# cp example\est_ca_handler.py acme\ca_handler.py
``` 
 - modify the server configuration (/acme/acme_srv.cfg) and add the following parameters
```
[CAhandler]
est_host: https://<ip>:<port>
est_client_key: <filename>
est_client_cert: <filename>
ca_bundle: <filename>
```
    - est_host - URL of the est server service
    - est_client_key - Private key of the certificate used for TLS client-auth (acme/est/est.key.pem)
    - est_client_cert - Certificate used for TLS client-auth (acme/est/est.crt.pem)
    - ca_bundle - CA certificate bundle needed to valiate the EST server certificate (acme/est/ca_bundle.pem)

Commit message:

[doc] requirement for cisco est server added

docs/est.md, after:

# Generic EST protocol handler

The EST protocol handler is not bound to a specific CA and implements the ['cacerts'](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-2.1) and ['simpleenroll'](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-2.2.1) calls as defined in [RFC7030](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030).

when using the handler please be aware of the following limitations:

- Authentication towards CA server is limited to ClientAuth as described in [RFC7030 section 3.3.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7030#section-3.3.2) 
- Revocation operations are not supported

The andler has been tested with the following EST implementation:

- [Insta Certifier](https://www.insta.fi/en/services/cyber-security/insta-certifier)
- EST reference implementation from [Cisco](http://testrfc7030.com/)

When using the Cisco test server make sure that the csr generated by your acme-client has a valid common-name. So enrollment by using cert-bot is unfortuately not possible.

## Pre-requisites
- Certificate and key (in PEM format) used to authenticate acme2certifier towards EST server. 
- CA certificate(s) in pem format allowing to validate the certificate presented by the EST server. The CA certificates must be bundled into a single chain file as described in [RFC5246 section 7.4.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5246#section-7.4.2)
 
## Installation and Configuration
 - copy the ca_handler into the acme directory
```
root@rlh:~# cp example/est_ca_handler.py acme/ca_handler.py
``` 
 - modify the server configuration (/acme/acme_srv.cfg) and add the following parameters
```
[CAhandler]
est_host: https://<ip>:<port>
est_client_key: <filename>
est_client_cert: <filename>
ca_bundle: <filename>
```
    - est_host - URL of the est server service
    - est_client_key - Private key of the certificate used for TLS client-auth (acme/est/est.key.pem)
    - est_client_cert - Certificate used for TLS client-auth (acme/est/est.crt.pem)
    - ca_bundle - CA certificate bundle needed to valiate the EST server certificate (acme/est/ca_bundle.pem)
