docs/mscertsrv.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable  MD013 -->
<!-- wiki-title CA handler for Microsoft Certification Authority Web Enrollment Service -->
# CA handler for Microsoft Certification Authority Web Enrollment Service

This CA handler uses Microsofts [Certification Authority Web Enrollment service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-r2-and-2012/hh831649(v=ws.11)) for certificate enrollment and the python library [magnuswatn](https://github.com/magnuswatn/)/[certsrv](https://github.com/magnuswatn/certsrv) for communication with the enrollment service.

When using the handler please be aware of the following limitations:

- Authentication towards Web Enrollment Service is limited to "basic" or "ntlm". There is currently no support for ClientAuth
- Communication is limited to https
- Revocation operations are not supported

## Preparation

1. Microsoft Certification Authority Web Enrollment Service must be enabled and configured - of course :-)
2. You need to have a set of credentails with permissions to access the service and enrollment templates
3. Authentication method (basic or ntlm) to the service must be defined.

It is helpful to verify the service access before starting the configuration of acme2certifier

- service access by using ntlm authentication towards certsrv

```bash
root@rlh:~# curl -I --ntlm --user <user>:<password> -k https://<host>/certsrv/
```

- service access by using basic authentication

```bash
root@rlh:~# curl -I --user <user>:<password> -k https://<host>/certsrv/
```

Access to the service is possible if you see the status code 200 returned as part of the reponse

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private
Content-Length: 3686
Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/10.0
Set-Cookie: - removed - ; secure; path=/
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
```

## Installation

- install [certsrv](https://github.com/magnuswatn/certsrv) via pip (module is already part of the docker images)

```bash
root@rlh:~# pip install certsrv[ntlm]
```

- copy the ca_handler into the acme directory

```bash
root@rlh:~# cp example/mscertsrv_ca_handler.py acme/ca_handler.py
```

- modify the server configuration (/acme/acme_srv.cfg) and add the following parameters

```config
[CAhandler]
host: <hostname>
user: <username>
password: <password>
ca_bundle: <filename>
auth_method: <basic|ntlm>
template: <name>
```

- host - hostname of the system providing the Web enrollment service
- user - username used to access the service
- password - password
- ca_bundle - CA certificate bundle in pem format needed to valiate the server certificate
- auth_method - authentication method (either "basic" or "ntlm")
- template - certificate template used for enrollment

Commit message:

[feat] support of environment variables in mscertserv_handler

docs/mscertsrv.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable  MD013 -->
<!-- wiki-title CA handler for Microsoft Certification Authority Web Enrollment Service -->
# CA handler for Microsoft Certification Authority Web Enrollment Service

This CA handler uses Microsofts [Certification Authority Web Enrollment service](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-r2-and-2012/hh831649(v=ws.11)) for certificate enrollment and the python library [magnuswatn](https://github.com/magnuswatn/)/[certsrv](https://github.com/magnuswatn/certsrv) for communication with the enrollment service.

When using the handler please be aware of the following limitations:

- Authentication towards Web Enrollment Service is limited to "basic" or "ntlm". There is currently no support for ClientAuth
- Communication is limited to https
- Revocation operations are not supported

## Preparation

1. Microsoft Certification Authority Web Enrollment Service must be enabled and configured - of course :-)
2. You need to have a set of credentails with permissions to access the service and enrollment templates
3. Authentication method (basic or ntlm) to the service must be defined.

It is helpful to verify the service access before starting the configuration of acme2certifier

- service access by using ntlm authentication towards certsrv

```bash
root@rlh:~# curl -I --ntlm --user <user>:<password> -k https://<host>/certsrv/
```

- service access by using basic authentication

```bash
root@rlh:~# curl -I --user <user>:<password> -k https://<host>/certsrv/
```

Access to the service is possible if you see the status code 200 returned as part of the reponse

```bash
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private
Content-Length: 3686
Content-Type: text/html
Server: Microsoft-IIS/10.0
Set-Cookie: - removed - ; secure; path=/
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
```

## Installation

- install [certsrv](https://github.com/magnuswatn/certsrv) via pip (module is already part of the docker images)

```bash
root@rlh:~# pip install certsrv[ntlm]
```

- copy the ca_handler into the acme directory

```bash
root@rlh:~# cp example/mscertsrv_ca_handler.py acme/ca_handler.py
```

- modify the server configuration (/acme/acme_srv.cfg) and add the following parameters

```config
[CAhandler]
host: <hostname>
user: <username>
password: <password>
ca_bundle: <filename>
auth_method: <basic|ntlm>
template: <name>
```

- host - hostname of the system providing the Web enrollment service
- host_variable - *optional* - name of the environment variable containing host address (a configured `host` parameter in acme_srv.cfg takes precedence)
- user - username used to access the service
- user_variable - *optional* - name of the environment variable containing the username used for service access (a configured `user` parameter in acme_srv.cfg takes precedence)
- password - password
- password_variable - *optional* - name of the environment variable containing the password used for service access (a configured `password` parameter in acme_srv.cfg takes precedence)
- ca_bundle - CA certificate bundle in pem format needed to valiate the server certificate
- auth_method - authentication method (either "basic" or "ntlm")
- template - certificate template used for enrollment
